
# Azure Backup Solutions: 

## types:

- files and folders
- VMs
- OS
- Hyper-V and VM virtual machines
- System staets
- SQL server 
- sharepoint
- azure file shares
- azure SQL database

## Advantages:
- You can use Azure backup to replace your tape backup system as long as you're using system center.
- You only pay for what you use when it comes to backup. And this is one of the few cases in Azure where you're not charged egress charges
- all of your backups are incremental backups. 
- storage is automatically provisioned as required
- you only pay for what you're actually consuming, not what may be consumed, and Azure backup provides for unlimited scaling of your storage.

## Storage Options:

- **LRS** (locally redundant storage) : 
  - three copies of your data within a single region
- **GRS**(globally redundant storage): 
    - additional 3 copies of data in different region i.e., at least 250 miles away
  - the data is replicated to another region
  - it costs more than locally redundant storage.

## Other Backup Features: 
  
- you're not charged for egress or outbound traffic
- The exception to this rule is if you use the import/export service to transfer your backups to or from Azure. There is a cost associated with this service.
- data encryption by default and to ensure security, a passphrase is used
- Azure backup provides application consistent backups as well
 
 ## Constraints for Backup:
- you can only have 25 recovery services or backup vaults per subscription
- You can only register 50 machines per vault,
- and only 200 Azure virtual machines per vault.