
# Azure Monitor Overview:

- Azure Monitor is your one stop shop to monitor and visualize metrics, 
- it provides insights into your systems, 
- query and analyze logs for troubleshooting, 
- and set up alerts and actions to notify you when something isn't quite right,
- and in some cases it can correct those issues for you



## getting mettrics

#### What is metrics and Logs:
- **Metrics** are numerical near real-time data that comes from Azure resources, such as virtual machines. You can view the metrics for a resource using the Metrics Explore.
- **Logs** on the other hand, contain telemetry data, from traces and events, as well as performance data. To view the data, you will need to query it using Log Analytics.

#### getting metrics from azure monitor


- Azure Monitor gathers and stores metrics and logs from a variety of sources
- These sources can include application monitoring, which will include the performance about an app
- Azure Monitor will also collect data from the OS that your app is running on. The system could be an Azure, on premises, or hosted in another cloud platform.
- Data about your Azure resources, subscriptions, and tenants can also be collected.
- And finally, Azure Monitor can use data from other sources using the Data Collector API.

## What Azure Monitor does with collected data

- The data, either metrics or logs are collected in the data store and then can be pushed to a variety of functions.
- You can gather insights, you can visualize the data, you can analyze the data, you can even respond to it, or you can integrate this data.