
# Question Set1:

[Reference](https://www.examtopics.com/discussions/microsoft/view/38955-exam-az-104-topic-5-question-8-discussion/)


- if we need to Associate each VM in Resource Group to respective dept. - the best way to do is via tags.
   - we cannot use management group as RG is part of subscription which is part of management group so all vm's by default part of same management group. Only way to distinguish them is via tags. [Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/tag-resources?tabs=json)

- Conditional access policy is a only way to enable MFA for global administrators.  [Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/conditional-access/howto-conditional-access-policy-admin-mfa)
   - you can do exclude here for breakglass exceptions etc. 

- We need to use **Grant Control** and NOT the Session Control to alter conditional access for MFA. [Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/conditional-access/howto-conditional-access-policy-admin-mfa)

- creating azure ubuntu vm via cli:
```text
az vm create \
--resource-group myResourceGroupAutomate \
--name myAutomatedVM \
--image UbuntuLTS \
--admin-username azureuser \
--generate-ssh-keys \
--custom-data cloud-init.txt
```
- cloud-init is a widely used approach to customize a Linux VM as it boots for the first time.[link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/using-cloud-init)
  - cloud-init can be used to install packages, configure security etc. 

- You can't change the usage model after an MFA provider is created.[link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/authentication/concept-mfa-authprovider#manage-your-mfa-provider)
  - Since it is not possible to change the usage model of an existing provider as it is right now, you have to create a new one and reactivate your existing server with activation credentials from the new provider. 

- new user account sync which is created in the on-premise AD. to replicate the user information to Azure AD immediately we need to use delta option but not initial. 
  - Azure AD Connect manual sync cycle with powershell, Start-ADSyncSyncCycle
  - -PolicyType **Initial** is used for full initial sync and new account  replication may take some time if total size is big.
  - -PolicyType **delta** is used for delta sync from last full sync and so new account replication will be immediate.
  - Also can be done as follows: AD Connect > Sychronization service > Connectors >Run on the actions pane
  - [link](https://blog.kloud.com.au/2016/03/08/azure-ad-connect-manual-sync-cycle-with-powershell-start-adsyncsynccycle/)
```text
Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Initial PowerShell cmdlet
```

- [storage redundancy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-redundancy)
  - **RA-GRS** allows you to have higher read availability for your storage account by providing read only access to the data replicated to the secondary location. 
  - Once you enable this feature, the secondary location may be used to achieve higher availability in the event the data is not available in the primary region. This is an important feature which requires the storage account be geo-replicated.
   
- Your company has an azure subscription that includes a storage account, a resource group, a blob container and a file share.
  A colleague named Jon Ross makes use of a solitary Azure Resource Manager (ARM) template to deploy a virtual machine and an additional Azure Storage account. You want to review the ARM template that was used by Jon Ross.
  - we need to access Resurce group blade to export RG template as it contains both VM and Storage account info
  - VM blade will only help with VM info but not storage info
  - [link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-manager-export-template)

- Your company has three virtual machines (VMs) that are included in an availability set.
  You try to resize one of the VMs, which returns an allocation failure message.
  - you should stop all 3 VMs
  - Only one VM in same availability set can be resized if upgrading to same VM family.
    In the question you see "allocation error" which happens if you are upgrading one VM which is not part of same VM family, or the VM is not available. The resolution is to stop all the VMs and resize each VM.
  - If the VM you wish to resize is part of an availability set, then you must stop all VMs in the availability set before changing the size of any VM in the availability set.
    The reason all VMs in the availability set must be stopped before performing the resize operation to a size that requires different hardware is that all running VMs in the availability set must be using the same physical hardware cluster. Therefore, if a change of physical hardware cluster is required to change the VM size then all VMs must be first stopped and then restarted one-by-one to a different physical hardware clusters.



- You can simply detach a data disk from one VM and attach it to the other VM without stopping either of the VMs.
- Your company has an Azure subscription.
  You need to deploy a number of Azure virtual machines (VMs) using Azure Resource Manager (ARM) templates. You have been informed that the VMs will be included in a single availability set.
  You are required to make sure that the ARM template you configure allows for as many VMs as possible to remain accessible in the event of fabric failure or maintenance.
  Which of the following is the value that you should configure for the **platformFaultDomainCount** property?
  - **Max Value**
  - Each virtual machine in your availability set is assigned an update domain and a fault domain by the underlying Azure platform
  - Each availability set can be configured with up to 3 fault domains and **20 update domains**.
  - For a given availability set, 5 non-user-configurable update domains are assigned by default (Resource Manager deployments can then be increased to provide up to **20** update domains) to indicate groups of virtual machines and underlying physical hardware that can be rebooted at the same time.
  - Update domains indicate groups of virtual machines and underlying physical hardware that can be rebooted at the same time.
  - Fault domains define the group of virtual machines that share a common power source and network switch
  - [link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/manage-availability)

- Azure virtual machine scale sets let you create and manage a group of load balanced VMs. The number of VM instances can automatically increase or decrease in response to demand or a defined schedule. 
- You have downloaded an Azure Resource Manager (ARM) template to deploy numerous virtual machines (VMs). The ARM template is based on a current VM, but must be adapted to reference an administrative password.
  You need to make sure that the password cannot be stored in plain text.
  You are preparing to create the necessary components to achieve your goal.
  Which of the following should you create to achieve your goal?
  - Answer: Azure Key Vault and Access Policy
  - Key Vault will store your KV pairs but you still need to configure the access policy to determine the level of access that a service principal (ARM template will use) can perform against the key vault.

- Your company has an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant that is configured for hybrid coexistence with the on-premises Active Directory domain.
  The on-premise virtual environment consists of virtual machines (VMs) running on Windows Server 2012 R2 Hyper-V host servers.
  You have created some PowerShell scripts to automate the configuration of newly created VMs. You plan to create several new VMs.
  You need a solution that ensures the scripts are run on the new VMs.
  Which of the following is the best solution?
  - **Configure a SetupComplete.cmd batch file in the %windir%\setup\scripts directory.**
  - After you deploy a Virtual Machine you typically need to make some changes before itג€™s ready to use. This is something you can do manually or you could use
    Remote PowerShell to automate the configuration of your VM after deployment for example.
    But now thereג€™s a third alternative available allowing you customize your VM: the CustomScriptextension.
    This CustomScript extension is executed by the VM Agent and itג€™s very straightforward: you specify which files it needs to download from your storage account and which file it needs to execute. You can even specify arguments that need to be passed to the script. The only requirement is that you execute a .ps1 file.
    [Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/manufacture/desktop/add-a-custom-script-to-windows-setup https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/automating-vm-customization-tasks-using-custom-script-extension/)


- Your company has an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant that is configured for hybrid coexistence with the on-premises Active Directory domain.
  You plan to deploy several new virtual machines (VMs) in Azure. The VMs will have the same operating system and custom software requirements.
  You configure a reference VM in the on-premise virtual environment. You then generalize the VM to create an image.
  You need to **upload the image to Azure** to ensure that it is available for selection when you create the new Azure VMs.
  Which **PowerShell cmdlets** should you use?
  - The **Add-AzVhd** cmdlet uploads on-premises virtual hard disks, in .vhd file format, to a blob storage account as fixed virtual hard disks.
  - This article walks you through using PowerShell to upload a VHD of a generalized VM to Azure, create an image from the VHD, and create a new VM from that image. You can upload a VHD exported from an on-premises virtualization tool or from another cloud. Using Managed Disks for the new VM simplifies the VM management and provides better availability when the VM is placed in an availability set.
  - [link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/upload-generalized-managed)

- Your company has an Azure subscription that includes a number of Azure virtual machines (VMs), which are all part of the same virtual network.
  Your company also has an on-premises Hyper-V server that hosts a VM, named VM1, which must be replicated to Azure.
  Which of the following objects that must be created to achieve this goal? 
  - **For physical servers**
    - Storage Account
    - Azure Recovery Services Vault
    - Replication policy
      https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/site-recovery/physical-azure-disaster-recovery
  - **For Hyper-v server**
    - Hyper-V site
    - Azure Recovery Services Vault
    - Replication policy
      https://docs.microsoft.com/en-nz/azure/site-recovery/hyper-v-prepare-on-premises-tutorial

- Your company's Azure subscription includes two Azure networks named VirtualNetworkA and VirtualNetworkB.
  VirtualNetworkA includes a VPN gateway that is configured to make use of static routing. Also, a site-to-site VPN connection exists between your company's on- premises network and VirtualNetworkA.
  You have configured a point-to-site VPN connection to VirtualNetworkA from a workstation running Windows 10. After configuring virtual network peering between
  VirtualNetworkA and VirtualNetworkB, you confirm that you are able to access VirtualNetworkB from the company's on-premises network. However, you find that you cannot establish a connection to VirtualNetworkB from the Windows 10 workstation.
  You have to make sure that a connection to VirtualNetworkB can be established from the Windows 10 workstation.
  Solution: You choose the Allow gateway transit setting on VirtualNetworkA.
  Does the solution meet the goal?
  - No, you need to recrerate point-to-site vpn
  - You download and re-install the VPN client configuration package on the Windows 10 workstation.
  - [link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/vpn-gateway-about-point-to-site-routing)

- remote work using azure vpn client gateway : point-to-site VPN 
  - [link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/work-remotely-support)
  - Site-to-Site will be better   if you know that the remote workers work from one location, but if we don't know that then point-to-Site 

- Your company has a Microsoft SQL Server Always On availability group configured on their Azure virtual machines (VMs).
  You need to configure an Azure internal load balancer as a listener for the availability group.
  Solution: You create an HTTP health probe on port 1433.
  Does the solution meet the goal?
  - NO, 
  - You need to configure a load-balancing rule to allow/route traffic to the SQL Server instances.
    Health probe - is for monitoring the health status of the backend servers or instances.
    [link1](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/virtual-machines/windows/availability-group-load-balancer-portal-configure#step-4-set-the-load-balancing-rules)
  - [link2](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/virtual-machines/windows/availability-group-load-balancer-portal-configure#step-3-create-a-probe)
  - The load balancing rules configure how the load balancer routes traffic to the SQL Server instances. For this load balancer, you enable direct server return because only one of the two SQL Server instances owns the availability group listener resource at a time. Therefore **Floating IP** (direct server return) is Enabled. **TCP 1433 is the standard SQL port. The availability group listener health probe port has to be different from the cluster core IP address health probe port.** The ports on a health probe are TCP59999 and TCP58888.

 

- Your company has two on-premises servers named SRV01 and SRV02. Developers have created an application that runs on SRV01. The application calls a service on SRV02 by IP address.
  You plan to migrate the application on Azure virtual machines (VMs). You have configured two VMs on a single subnet in an Azure virtual network.
  You need to configure the two VMs with static internal IP addresses.
  What should you do?
  - Run the **Set-AzureStaticVNetIP** PowerShell cmdlet.
  - FYI: For the new PowerShell cmdlets you would use: **Set-AzNetworkInterface**
  - [link](https://docs.microsoft.com/bs-latn-ba/powershell/module/servicemanagement/azure.service/set-azurestaticvnetip?view=azuresmps-4.0.0)

- Your company has an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) subscription.
  You need to deploy five virtual machines (VMs) to your company's virtual network subnet.
  The VMs will each have both a public and private IP address. Inbound and outbound security rules for all of these virtual machines must be identical.
  Which of the following is the least amount of network interfaces needed for this configuration?
  - 5 VM so 5 NIC Cards .we have public and private ip address set to them .however they needs same inbound and outbound rule so create 1 NSG and attach to NIC and this req can be fulfilled 5 NIC hence 5 is right ans
  - Which of the following is the least amount of security groups needed for this configuration? **1**

- Your company's Azure subscription includes Azure virtual machines (VMs) that run Windows Server 2016.
  One of the VMs is backed up every day using Azure Backup Instant Restore.
  When the VM becomes infected with data encrypting ransomware, you decide to **recover** the VM's files.
  Which of the following is TRUE in this scenario?
  - **You can recover the files to any VM within the company subscription.**
  - When the VM becomes infected with data encrypting ransomware, you are required to restore the VM?  **You should restore the VM to a new Azure VM.** since any VM within subscription can be windows or linux both. 

- You administer a solution in Azure that is currently having performance issues.
  You need to find the cause of the performance issues pertaining to metrics on the Azure infrastructure.
  Which of the following is the tool you should use?
  - Metrics in Azure Monitor are stored in a time-series database which is optimized for analyzing time-stamped data. This makes metrics particularly suited for alerting and fast detection of issues.
   [ Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/platform/data-platform)

- Your company has an Azure subscription that includes a Recovery Services vault.
  You want to use Azure Backup to schedule a backup of your company's virtual machines (VMs) to the Recovery Services vault.
  Which of the following VMs can you back up? Choose all that apply.
  - Azure Backup supports backup of 64-bit Windows server operating system from Windows Server 2008. 
  - Azure Backup supports backup of 64-bit Windows 10 operating system. 
  - Azure Backup supports backup of 64-bit Debian operating system from Debian 7.9+.
  - Azure Backup supports backup of VM that are shutdown or offline.
  - [link](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/backup/backup-support-matrix-iaas https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/endorsed-distros)

- 













