
# IP Address overview:

## Public IP:
- connect to internet
- conenct to other azure public facing resources : sql db, azure storage

### Public IP SKU's

- **Basic**
  - The basic SKU for a public IP allows for **static or dynamic allocation**.
  - It is open by default, but you can restrict traffic using network security groups or NSGs. 
  - **The basic SKU does not support Availability Zones.**


- **Standard**
  - The public IP standard SKU only allows for static allocation. 
  - Dynamic is not supported here. 
  - And it is closed to inbound traffic by default.
  - In order to allow inbound traffic, you must use a network security group allow list for that traffic
  - And the public IP using the standard SKU is zone redundant by default.

### Assigning Public IP:

- There are several resources in which you can assign public IPs, including, obviously, **virtual machines**. The IP is assigned to the primary network interface.
- We can assign public IPs to **VPN gateways.** If you're going to do this, you need to know that only dynamic IPs are supported for gateways
- We can apply public IPs to **application gateways and internet-facing load balancers**
- If you're unsure if your resource is a public IP, here's my general rule of thumb. If it needs access to the outside world, it will need a public IP.

### Static vs Dynamic IP:

- Dynamic IP:
  - This is the default IP address. 
  - It is not assigned when the virtual machine is created, but assigned during the startup of the virtual machine. 
  - A public IP that is dynamic will be released when the virtual machine is restarted, stopped, or deallocated.

- Static IP:
  - the static IP will be assigned when the virtual machine is provisioned.
  - And the IP is never released unless you change the address from static to dynamic or delete the resource.
  - A static IP address is assigned from the Azure resource pool.
  - Microsoft recommends not applying a static IP to the OS of a virtual machine
    - This is a best practice.
    - There are two exceptions to this rule of course, one being is if you're assigning multiple IPs to a virtual machine, then you'll want to assign static IPs, or if you're using the same IP address that has been assigned to a network interface.

### Private IPs

- Private IPs are assigned to virtual machines within the virtual network.
- We can use the private IP to connect to an on-premises environment using a VPN Gateway or ExpressRoute. 
- Private IPs are not accessible to the internet.
- A private IP can be assigned to a virtual machine remembering that each network interface is assigned a private IP address. Private IPs can be assigned to an internal load balancer as well as application gateways.
- And just like we have with our public IPs, we have two types of private IPs: dynamic and static
- Do not configure the private IP within the server. This will result in failures and dropped connections. 
- There will be times when you will need a private static IP address. The most common reasons will be when you have a domain controller in Azure, a DNS server, or other resources that require a static IP for connectivity.

### DHCP

- Azure controls IP addressing. For those of you who try to set up DHCP on an Azure virtual machine are going to be surprised when you realize the role is not even available to you